mind your decisions I'm presh tal Walker
solve for the value of each color in the
following arithmetic problem each color
represents a different digit from 0 to 9
I think Lucas for suggesting this
problem it originally appeared as a
Belgian Olympiad problem with the
letters ma and T pause the video if
you'd like to give this problem a try
and when you're ready keep watching to
learn how to solve this problem
[Music]
we'll get started by focusing on the
letter M suppose M equals five in that
case the sum will be at least fifteen
hundred and this is going to be too
large of a value because we need the sum
to be fourteen sixteen therefore M
equals five
produces a sum that's too large and it's
not possible
the same logic is true for M greater
than or equal to five we can eliminate
all of these possibilities
what if M equals three in that case the
largest value of the sum will be 1197
and that's too small because we need the
sum to be fourteen sixteen therefore M
equals three cannot be a possibility and
M less than or equal to three can also
be eliminated
what remains is M is equal to four
this will simplify our calculation if we
substitute M is equal to four we know
that just from the terms involving M we
get a sum of 1204 if we subtract those
out we get the resulting sum of two
hundred and twelve and we have a new
problem we now need to solve for a and T
let's focus on T in the unit's column T
plus T can either equal to or it can
equal twelve consider the first case if
T plus T equals 2 then T is equal to one
which then means the entire problem has
to be ten a plus 10a plus 1 plus 11 is
equal to 212 this means 20 a equals 200
and a is equal to 10 but that's not
possible because a has to be a single
digit from 0 to 9 therefore we must have
T plus T is equal to 12
this means T is equal to 6 and we can
then go ahead and solve that a must be
equal to 7 therefore this is the answer
to the problem M is equal to 4 a is
equal to 7 and T is equal to 6 and we
can in fact verify this does work out
thanks for making mind your decisions
one of the best channels on YouTube as
always thanks for watching and thanks
for your support
[Music]